in this video you are going to defy the
limits of After Effects and do things
that were thought were impossible in
After Effects especially when it comes
to 3D if you look at 3D software like
Cinema 4D they have specific 3d motion
graphic features that basically allow
you to make objects react to other
objects this is usually not possible in
After Effects but in this video we are
going to explore how we can do this and
we are specifically going to do this in
3D if we take a look at at the actual
promotion video in here we can see that
we have this little object this orb that
wherever it is going the layers are
reacting to it so in this case in here
they are changing the color and the
direction and rotation Etc and if we
take a look at this scene for instance
they are being attracted by it and as it
passes they just rotate a little bit in
here so if we go to another scene now in
here we can see that we have this little
orb that as it is passing in here these
objects are actually playing an
animation so as it passes they play this
animation where where they jump up and
rotate let's now see this actually in
action in one of these scenes so in here
I have this fector and when I move this
around you can see the floor the object
on the floor reacting to it and we can
move this in the x-axis or wherever we
like so if I use the y axis in here you
can see it affecting the other objects
as well so every object is reacting to
it so let's jump into a new composition
over here and let's just start building
our scene step by step to achieve this
effect so I'm going to click on the
rectangle button in here and I'm going
to do a quick shape layer and let's open
this up and make sure that it is of
around size
150 or even 160 so let's say make it 160
and roundness I'm going to give it a
roundness of 20 so that it have some
rounded edges and I'm going to rename
this to
square great so I'm going now to
position this somewhere around here and
I'm going to duplicate this nine times
to have nine
squares actually 10 squares so and this
last Square I'm going to position it
right over here at the edge now let's
pick all of these squares and click on
the distribute horizontally button and
this will automatically distribute them
for you just like that perfect so now
let's pick on all of these layers
command D on your keyboard and we can
start placing them upwards just like
this just to create this grid of layers
so let's do the same thing in here let's
pick all of these and command D on your
keyboard and we're going to place these
above just like that
perfect and let's do that one more time
let's place them right over there and
now we can place them above the other
layers just like that now we can pick
everything and we can place them in the
center in here to have everything
organized like that and like that very
quickly have built this grid of squares
so the next step is to actually turn
these to 3D so let's pick all of these
and turn them to 3D just like that now
let's introduce a CA so layer new and
camera and something around this
settings would be good maybe we can
change the focal length
230 and then we can simply use the orbit
tool to orbit like that wonderful now we
can pick this and orbit back like that
and then we can pan a little bit to
arrange these in our scene like this of
course you can have more squares in here
it's you can build however you like so
let's make this fit up to 100% and now
I'm going to introduce a new layer add
new and it would be a null
object great so we're going to change
this to a 3D object as well and as you
can see it is centered in our scene
right over there and let's rename this
to fector it is very important to use
this exact name since this is important
for what we are going to do later on so
we have our affector ready in there
let's continue building our scene so I'm
going to pick all of these
squares make sure that your scene is set
up to Advanced 3D not classic 3D so
Advanced 3D and then we are going to
with them all selected we are going to
open them go to Geometry options and we
can go to Bevel depth in here and right
above it there is bevel style we're
going to change that to
convex and we're going to go to
Extrusion in depth and we're going to ex
through them to something that we like
so something around that now if we look
at these we can see that we have these
beautiful 3D shapes all layered out
right over here so let's hit you on our
keyboard to close everything and now we
can introduce some lights layer new and
lights from here I want a point
light and I'm going to make it a little
bit downward in here and somewhere
around here let's open that go to light
options and we're going to reduce its
radius somewhere around that and
increase its intensity like that great
so around 200% would be great and we're
going to link that so parent to the
affector so now if I position the fector
above in here and I move that fector we
can see all of those shapes being
revealed and of course we can move this
down up or down however we like the next
step would be to have another Point
light so command D and this one I don't
want it to follow the effector so let's
hit none and this one we can place it
somewhere else in our scene so somewhere
around here maybe and we can open that
up go to light options and increase its
radius so somewhere around here and like
this we are creating this very nice
Dynamic scene in here
and let's add another light and we can
place that around let's see around
here great so our scene is almost done
the only thing is I'm going to pick both
of these lights and decrease their
intensity to around 1
%. great so we are almost there now
before we continue I wanted to just
humbly ask you if you could leave a like
or a comment below this would really
help me to reach more people I have some
very exciting tutorials plan out so also
don't forget to subscribe if you would
like to see more content like this so
now we're going to go to the fector and
we're going to start bringing in some
effects over it so that this effect can
take place where the these little
squares get attracted or change position
depending on this little object in here
so I'm going to go in here and I'm going
to type in slider and let's bring in a
slider
control and this one we're going to
rename it to radius
perfect now let's duplicate this and
this one we're going to rename it to
radius
strength make sure that these names are
exactly like this since it is very
important for the following steps so the
next one would be scale two so duplicate
that once again and we're going to
rename that to scale two and as you can
imagine this would actually affect the
scale and just to keep things simple in
this example we're going to just scale
and position let's now add another
control it is now 3D Point control and
let's drag and drop it right over there
and this is going to be renamed to
position
XYZ finally I would also like to add a
color control so let's add a
color control drag and drop it right
over there
and this one we're going to rename it to
color
from and let's duplicate this command D
and rename that to color
two perfect so this is all set up and
now we can start playing a bit with this
and bring in the magic so as you can
imagine to do this whenever we have an
object that's going to relate to another
object we're going to use expressions
but don't worry I'm going to make this
quite simple for you I have written all
these Expressions down right over here
you can simply copy and paste them like
me and I have also placed them on my
website so you can go to my website and
every expression is separated for
instance this one is four color and you
also have an explanation of what these
do if you would like to go through that
but if not you can simply drag all of
this and simply copy and paste copy this
in your expression now if you don't want
anything to do with Expressions I have
actually done a preset for you that you
can simply apply to any layer and it
would do this whole process for you
automatically we will see how that works
at a later stage so let's start from
here I'm going to start from the
position I'm simply going to copy this
command C on my keyboard go to the
square in here hit P open that up and
hit alt on my keyboard while I click the
stopwatch to open the expression field
and we're going to paste that right over
there let's type in the next one which
would be let's see right over here which
would be
scale and I'm going to copy
that and let's go to S for scale and
click on the stop P while holding alt
and paste that right over there great
now let's go to the next one and in this
case I have X rotation y rotation and Z
rotation I haven't added a property to
control those in this case I'm going to
skip this part but if you would like to
add those simply go to the fector add a
3D Point control named rotation XYZ and
then you can simply copy and paste the X
rotation y rotation and Z rotation as
well but in this case I'm going to copy
the color so let's go to color command C
on my keyboard copy that and let's go to
this Square in here and then going to
open that go to contents we are going to
go to the fill let's open that by
holding alt on our keyboard and click on
the stopwatch and now we can paste it
right over there perfect so that's all
the copy and pasting of Expressions that
we need to do so now the next step is
actually to populate all of these layers
in here with the same Expressions so to
do that it's going to be fairly simple
let's close this and open it once again
let's make sure everything is closed in
here and we just have transform in this
case so I'm going to go to the position
and I'm going to go from here and click
on copy expression only and now I need
to select all of the other squares so
just select them hold shift to select
them all and simply paste right over
here and now let's do the same for this
scale so copy expression
only and paste them on all the other
layers
and now for the actual
color so let's go to contents in here
open that up go to fill color copy in
here command C and the thing about color
is actually that we cannot just paste it
in here on all of the layers
automatically in here but we would need
to go in every layer in here so let's go
in the first layer from here let's open
the
contents and open the rectangle in here
go to fill and we need to paste that
over that property so select color and
paste it right over there it would have
been best in this case to actually apply
the the color expression before I start
applicating all of these squares since
that would save me a bit of time so very
quickly I'm going to add these over all
of these squares and then we can
resume so I have added all of those
color properties of course in your case
it's best to add those before when you
have just one square and then just
duplicate so now we can go to the fector
as you can see everything has vanished
in here so let's go to the F vector and
start playing with the values right over
here and this is where the real magic
would happen so first we need to
increase the radius we need to increase
the radius a little bit more so I would
like to increase it to somewhere around
500 maybe and now you can see the magic
happening so when we hover over these
layers and as you can see the scale is
set to zero so they are scaling down to
zero and if we increase the radius
strength it will affect the whole like
the whole radius the same way so if we
add that to around 400 for
instance you can see how that would work
and if we in decrease it to
zero it would be more gradual most of
the times I like to keep this at zero
now let's change the scale to around 50
for
instance and let's go to position XYZ so
this is X this is y and this is z and
I'm going to keep the X at zero going to
play with just the Z in this
case great so now as you can see the
layers are being attracted up like that
and if we maybe scale to let's say 11
1 like that they're actually now
increasing in
size great so this looks already very
nice of course the color is off now but
we have this little control that we have
done which we can change for instance
from color from we can change it to the
blue that we had before somewhere around
that perfect and now you can see the
magic happening in here very very nice
great and this one we can give it any
color so we can make this nice purple
like our example and you can see how
that
works great so this is how this this
thing would work and if this one is more
far away as you can see it doesn't
affect it so this is really great and
the great thing is that we also have
this little light in here this is is
making the effect looking even better
and we can make them maybe the opposite
direction so let's make the 100 and like
this you can see it affects it in the
opposite direction it repels them so you
can see the value that this gives to
your
projects so let's bring that back to
minus 100 and of course if we had added
the rotation control in here we could
even rotate them so let's now go to the
project window and I'm going to add the
orb
so in this case I have this little 3D
sphere orb in here that I have already
done if you are interested in knowing
how you can create these kind of forms
we can actually make a whole video on
this so let me know in the comment
section in the comment section below so
I'm going to Simply drag and drop this
inside of our composition
here and one thing that we can do we can
turn this to a 3D layer and we can then
link it to the fector and play around
with the position Etc but since we are
using Expressions we're going to use a
nice simple
expression to help us with this so I'm I
also have this typed in
here if you would like to see this you
can simply go to the link below and
simply copy and paste this and I'm going
to place this over the position so I'm
going to leave this to a 2d layer and
click on position and we're going to
paste this right over this right over
this and this is basically taking the 3D
value and changing it into a 2d position
value so like this this orb we don't
have to worry about the liting of the
seene this orb would stay basically the
same and it would still follow this F
Vector so wherever this goes that orb
goes now over this little 3D sphere in
here I'm going to add a glow effect
from here and we're going to increase
the radius in here somewhere around here
and that looks quite good so I like how
this looks so this is basically how my
scenes are set up as you can see you
have the F vector and wherever it goes
the layers react to that and you can of
course key frame this layer to make the
animation in this example we're going to
see how we can do the same thing but
using the preset so let's now go to the
fector as you can see it is empty in
this case I only have 10 squares just to
keep everything simple in here I'm going
to go to the effects and presets and
it's already installed in here for me
under my user presets in mograph presets
so let's go to the mograph fector and we
can simply double click on that and that
would add this effect for us over the
affector and as you can see the great
thing about this is that everything is
very organized in here so you can see
the affector and this properties the
radius and radius strength and then you
can see the affected properties you also
have a section for special properties
which we can apply to any property so
for instance if you had a blare you can
apply the same expressions and
techniques that you have done to that
blare layer or any other property we'll
see in a few minutes how you can
actually use the power of this of these
special properties so let's close that
and now let's go to these all of these
squares and I would like to animate
these so to do that I'm going to go to
the m graph 3D layer and these are in 3D
so I am adding the 3D layer if you are
using the 2D you're going to add the 2D
layer so double click and it will do
everything automatically for us if I
move this around you can see the effect
is already happening in here of course
the scale in in this case let's reduce
it a little bit in size and we can play
with the position as we have done before
so we
can position that downward for instance
and in this case we have the rotation
already applied as well so we can rotate
them like that and however we like just
like that very nice and now we
can as you can see see the power of this
in this case the color is not applied
automatically that's a specific preset
in here so we can go to double click on
u in here go to the color field in here
and then simply go to m graph color
property if I pick the null in here the
fector and move it over that layer we
can see it changing color as well of
course you can apply it to all the other
layers as we have done before so now
let's see this scene and how we have
made this
where the actual null layer the affector
is triggering an animation in here and
as you can see in this case it is
triggering an opposite animation so
these are going up and these are going
down so let's see how we can do that I
have already set up the objects in here
just the same way as we have done before
and I already have the the color
expression written in there so we don't
have to worry about copying and pasting
in there so that is done already so and
now in this case we are going to use a
plug-in so in this case it is necessary
to use this plugin since we are going to
use one of those special properties that
we can apply apply these Expressions to
so now let's pick all of these layers
pick all of them and go to our plugin
here called Mega motion and with this we
can add any animation you have 2,000
animations that you can choose from and
in this case I would like to add a
middle animation and I can type it in in
here since I know what I would like to
add so that would be a
bounds roll so let's find this 3D Loop
bounce XR so as you can see you can see
a little preview in here of how that
would look and we can simply click on
apply instead of applying it to all of
the layers in here I'm actually going to
apply it to one single layer in this
case so let's apply it to this layer in
here
1 2 3 shape layer 1 2 3 so simply click
on apply like that and we can see the
animation happening in here over that
just one lay let's solo
it and if we play that you can see that
that nice bouncing and rotation
animation happening in here over this
layer great so now the first thing that
I'm going to do is I'm going to go to
the effect controls from here and from
here we have some options that we can
play with so the first one is Loop
duration if we increase that to around
two for instance it would be slower so
it would take more time for this
animation to happen so I want this to be
around 2 seconds so this is good perfect
so that's the first step now I'm going
to go over animation intensity in here
and if you remember we have those
special properties I am going to add
this special property to this en
intensity so let's see what this
animation intensity actually does so if
it is zero no animation would actually
happen if it is set to 10% the animation
would happen normally in here and if it
is set to anything in between so for
instance five it would happen still but
it would be less strong basically the
animation so let's leave that back to 10
and now let's open this layer and find
that effect so I'm going to find
animation intensity from here and I'm
simply going to go to mograph special
property and simply double click on that
to apply this expression to it and now
if I go to the effect turn here I can
propery one I can change it from zero to
around 15 let's say 15 so that we we'll
make sure that it is 10 when this passes
over it so now as you can see no
animation is happening at this part
since the
orb is not on it but when it passes it
triggers the animation like that and
that is how we do that now if I pick
this effect that I have already
done so let's pick this up copy it let's
untick this so that we can see all of
the other ones and I would like to start
with the first row in here since this is
animating upwards as you can
see and then we can see how we can flip
the animation actually so let's pick all
of
these that would be to somewhere around
let's see
here and I'm going to Simply command V
on my keyboard to paste to paste that
great so I pasted that effect in here
and now you can see that happening right
over here with the animation and
rotation Etc now let's pick this once
again and this one this row I would like
it to animate the opposite direction so
I would like it to animate down in here
in this effect you can simply flip the
animation so flip y-
axis and Bam that simply flips the
animation on the other side you can even
change the rotation of this whole thing
so if you would like to animate in this
direction you can change the angle like
that but let's in this case simply flip
the y- axis and now I'm going to copy
this command on my keyboard and I am
going to paste this over all of these
layers in here so let's select
those and let's go to around this so
let's paste them actually right over
there and then simply delete that layer
if we need to so that one actually it
has done it automatically for us so
don't worry so in this case now as we
paste those you can see this effect
happening in here so let's preview it
very
quickly and like that you can see the
animation happening wherever the orb is
and if we would like to test this so
let's see I have the effector here let's
pick this
up and let's actually remove the the key
frames in here if I move this
down you can see now the animation is
happening Less on these so if I place
this the animation is only
happening at this part where the orb is
and since we move this down it is
happening Less on these layers and more
on these and wherever we move this the
animation would happen so this is a
great trick to enable these Motion
Graphics properties inside of after
effects if you're interested in mega
motion you can simply check the link in
description and you can even find a
package with 23 presets that you can try
out out of course in the description you
would also find a link for all the
Expressions that we have used and also a
link where you can get the presets that
you can apply to any of the layers
that's it guys if you are interested in
more tutorials check out this tutorial
where we actually see how we can bend 3D
objects in After Effects
[Music]